This Laboratory Developed Test is a high-throughput version of the CDC 2019-nCoV Realtime RT-PCR test and has been validated in accordance with the guidance issued by the College of American Pathologists (Mar 19, 2020) and the FDA (Feb 29th, 2020). 

This test has not been FDA cleared or approved but has been authorized by FDA under an EUA for this laboratory. This test is only authorized for the duration of the declaration that circumstances exist justifying the authorization of emergency use of in vitro diagnostic tests for detection and/or diagnosis of COVID-19 under Section 564(b)(1) of the Act, 21 U.S.C. § 360bbb-3(b)(1), unless the authorization is terminated or revoked sooner.

This test has been authorized only for the detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2, not for any other viruses or pathogens. 

The test was validated for use with respiratory specimens obtained via nasopharyngeal, oropharyngeal, or nasal swabs in liquid transport media or saline or sent dry. The performance of this test has not been established for other specimens. Specimens collected using other FDA recommended Specimen Collection Materials listed in the FDA COVID-19 Diagnostic Technologies communication (March 26, 2020) are processed with the caveat that they were not all validated for use with this test and the result must be interpreted in this context. 

Method: RNA is isolated from respiratory specimens in approved media using MagMAX™-96 Viral RNA Isolation Kits (Thermo Fisher Scientific, AMB18365), is reverse transcribed to cDNA, and subsequently amplified in the Applied Biosystems® ViiA7 Real-Time PCR Instrument. This system provides qualitative detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2. For more detailed information on the test methods and limitations see https://covid-19-test-info.broadinstitute.org/

Positive results are indicative of active infection with SARS-CoV-2 but do not rule out bacterial infection or co-infection with other viruses. The agent detected may not be the definite cause of disease. 

Negative results do not preclude SARS-CoV-2 infection and should not be used as the sole basis for patient management decisions. False negative results may occur if amplification inhibitors are present in the specimen or if inadequate numbers of organisms are present in the specimen due to improper collection, transportation, or handling.

If the virus mutates in the RT-PCR target region, SARS-CoV-2 may not be detected or may be detected less predictably.

Inhibitors or other types of interference may produce a false negative result. An interference study evaluating the effect of common cold medications was not performed. 
